## Repository containing scripts and materials related to the [manuscript](https://doi.org/10.1093/g3journal/jkad281) titled: Genome assemblies of two species of porcelain crab, Petrolisthes cinctipes and Petrolisthes manimaculis (Anomura: Porcellanidae).


### Abstract

Crabs are a large subtaxon of the Arthropoda, the most diverse and species-rich metazoan group. Several outstanding questions remain regarding crab diversification, including about the genomic capacitors of physiological and morphological adaptation, that cannot be answered with available genomic resources. Physiologically and ecologically diverse Anomuran porcelain crabs offer a valuable model for investigating these questions and hence genomic resources of these crabs would be particularly useful. Here we present the first two genome assemblies of congeneric and sympatric Anomuran porcelain crabs, Petrolisthes cinctipes and Petrolisthes manimaculis from different microhabitats. Pacific Biosciences high-fidelity sequencing led to genome assemblies of 1.5 Gb and 0.9 Gb, with N50s of 706.7 Kb and 218.9 Kb, respectively. Their assembly length difference can largely be attributed to the different levels of interspersed repeats in their assemblies: The larger genome of P. cinctipes has more repeats (1.12 Gb) than the smaller genome of P. manimaculis (0.54 Gb). For obtaining high-quality annotations of 44,543 and 40,315 protein-coding genes in P. cinctipes and P. manimaculis, respectively, we used RNA-seq as part of a larger annotation pipeline. Contrarily to the large-scale differences in repeat content, divergence levels between the two species as estimated from orthologous protein-coding genes are moderate. These two high-quality genome assemblies allow future studies to examine the role of environmental regulation of gene expression in the two focal species to better understand physiological response to climate change, and provide the foundation for studies in fine-scale genome evolution and diversification of crabs.
